.TH EC 1 "4 Jul 2021" "\[u00A9] EasyCopy User Manual"
.SH NAME
ec \- easier file handling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY ec
.I OPERATION
.I [options]
source target
.SY ec
.I OPERATION
.I [options]
source ... directory
.SY ec
.I [\-h | \-\-help]
.SY ec
.I [\-v | \-\-version]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Depending on
.IR OPERATION :
.PP
Duplicate or move source to target.
.br
Copy or move source(s) into directory.
.br
Output the help.
.br
Output version information.
.PP
.I OPERATION
must be one of
.RS
.TP
.I cp
Copy files and folders
.TP
.I mv
Move files and folders
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Existing files
.TP
.I \-f, \-\-force
Overwrite existing files without asking.
.TP
.I \-i, \-\-interactive
Ask before overwriting a file.
.TP
.I \-n, \-\-no\-clobber
Skip existing files.
.SS Special Options
.TP
.I "   \-\-no\-config"
Do not read any user configuration files.
.SS User Interface
.TP
.I \-V \-\-verbose
Output more information.
.TP
.I \-q \-\-quiet
Output no information.
.TP
.IB "   \-\-color" "[=WHEN]"
Whether to colorize the output.
.B WHEN
can be any of
.RS
.TP
.B always
always put ANSII escape codes in the output, regardless of the context
.TP
.B auto
put ANSII escape codes in the output if the environment supports it:
.br
On Windows, colors are only enabled in Powershell.
.br
On Linux, colors are disabled if stdout is a pipe.
.TP
.B never
never put ANSII escape codes in the output.
.PP
If
.B WHEN
is not given, 
.B always
is assumed.
.RE
.TP 
.I \-e \-\-extended\-colors
Colorize the output using $LS_COLORS
.TP
.I \-h \-\-help
Output the short help and exit.
.TP
.I \-v \-\-version
Output version information and exit.
.TP
.I "   \-\-copying"
Print conditions on redistributing EasyCopy source code.
.TP
.I "   \-\-warranty"
Print information on warranty provided with EasyCopy.
.TP
.I "    \-\-dry"
Dry run. Search for source files and attempt to open them, but don't write anything to the disk. Useful for debugging purposes.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
No problems have occured. Depending on the options, some files may have been overwritten or skipped without notice.
.TP
1
Minor problems have occured, e. g. a file was not readable, a device file was skipped or there was an error in the config file.
.TP
2
A major problem caused the program to abort it's task. More information can be found in the command output.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.EX
.BI ec " cp foo/ bar"
.EE
Duplicate the folder
.I foo/
as
.IR bar/ .
.TP
.EX
.BI ec " cp /tmp/foo /mnt/bar ~/baz/"
.EE
Copy
.I /tmp/foo
and
.I /mnt/bar
into
.IR ~/baz/ .
.TP
.EX
.BI ec " mv -fV foo bar"
.EE
Move
.I foo
as
.IR bar
while overwriting existing files and giving more information.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ec.conf
The config file for EasyCopy in which the command-line flags can be set by default. For more information see
.BR ec.conf(5) .
.SH NOTES
If a file is skipped, it's content and attributes remain unchanged.
An exception to this is the
.B atime
which will be updated to the time it was visited (if supported by the system).
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to the issue tracker of this project:
.UR https://github.com/scrouthtv/easy-copy/issues/
.UE
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \[u00A9] 2021 The EasyCopy authors.
This software is licensed under GNU GPL v3.
For more information, read the LICENSE file that was distributed with this software.
.PP
Absolutely no warranty is provided for this software.
For more information read the LICENSE file that was distributed with this software or run the command
.IR "ec --warranty" .
.PP
This software uses third-party source code.
A copy of their LICENSE is distributed with EasyCopy.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B ec.conf(5)
.PP
For more information, visit the project's website via
.UR https://github.com/scrouthtv/easy-copy/
.UE .
