.TH ec.conf 5 "05 Oct 2020" "\[u00A9] EasyCopy User Manual"
.SH NAME
ec.conf \- the configuration file for
.B easycopy(1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY $XDG_CONFIG_DIR/ec.conf
.SY $XDG_CONFIG_DIR/ec/ec.conf
.SY $HOME/.config/ec.conf
.SY $HOME/.config/ec/ec.conf
.SY $HOME/ec.conf
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ec.conf
is the configuration file for
.BR easycopy .
.PP
.B ec.conf
is written in plaintext.
Settings can be set using the following form:
.RS
.I KEY
.B =
.I VALUE
.RE
.PP
Empty lines are ignored.
Lines starting with
.B #
are comments and ignored as well.
Capitalisation is ignored.
Whitespaces, tab characters and quotes
.RB ( '
or
.BR \[u0022] )
between the tokens are ignored.
.PP
If an unknown
.I KEY
is encountered, a warning is printed and the line is ignored.
.br
If an invalid
.I VALUE
is encountered, a warning is printed and the corresponding setting remains unset.
.SH OPTIONS
These options are available:
.TP
.I verbose
Whether to output more information.
.br
Set to
.B true
or
.B false
(default).
.TP
.I overwrite
Sets the behaviour when encountering existing files.
.br
Set to
.RS
.TP
.B skip
Skip the file (the target remains untouched). A notice is only printed if
.I verbose
is set.
.TP
.B overwrite
Overwrite the file. A notice is only printed if
.I verbose
is set.
.TP
.B ask
Ask everytime an exisiting file in the target is encountered (default).
.RE
.TP
.I symlinks
Sets the behaviour when encountering symbolic links (symlinks).
.RS
.TP
.B ignore
Ignore the link. No file or filder with it's name will be created in the target.
.TP
.B link
The link is resolved and it's target will be linked from the target (default).
.TP
.B dereference
The link is resolved and it's target will be copied into the target.
.RE
.SH NOTES
If no config file is found in any of the valid locations, a default one is created in the first location.
.PP
.B easycopy
will never write to an existing config file.
.PP
If both
.B $XDG_CONFIG_DIR
and
.B $HOME
are unset, no config file is read.
.RE
